---
path: '/campaign-development/web-templates/web-template-client-javascript'
title: 'Template Client JavaScript'
tags: ['template','client','javascript']
---

When a campaign is returned to the browser, the client-side JavaScript code written within the [Clientside Code](/campaign-development/web-templates/web-template-global-templates) tab of the template editor is run. Here, a template developer can write any JavaScript compatible with the target browsers of their website. The context is passed from the server to the client-side code, which determines what to do with the data.
This article outlines the JavaScript functions used within the **Clientside Code** tab of the template -- `apply`, `reset`, and `control`.

## Template Apply and Reset Functions
The JavaScript you write in the **Clientside Code** tab of a template executes in the browser when a campaign using that template returns from the Interaction Studio server. The template's code must register two functions: `apply` and `reset`. A `control` function can also be registered for handling the control group of a campaign. The boilerplate code for a new template is shown below.

---

**Note:** The `registerTemplate` function is not defined in any public scope.

```js
(function() {

  function apply(context, template) {

  }

  function reset(context, template) {

  }

  function control(context) {

  }

  registerTemplate({
    apply: apply,
    reset: reset,
    control: control
  });

})();
```
---
### Apply
```ts
apply(context: Object, template: Function) => Promise<boolean> | void
```
The `apply` function is called when the template is provided a `context` to either render visible content on the page or handle.

The first parameter is the `context`, in the form of a JavaScript object. This is the payload that is returned from the server-side code of the **Serverside Code** tab.

The second parameter, `template`, is a function that expects the `context` as an argument to resolve with the Handlebars template, returning the generated HTML content.

The `apply` function can return a `Promise` that delays rendering of the template until the `Promise` resolves.

##### Template
```ts
template(context: Object) => string
```
The `template` function passes the `context` to the pre-compiled **Handlebars HTML** and returns the HTML generated by populating the template fields with the `context` object attributes.

---
**Note:** For information regarding content zones, see [Content Zones](/web-integration/sitemap/contentzones) and [Server TypeScript](/campaign-development/web-templates/web-template-server-typescript).

---
### Reset
```ts
reset(context: Object, template: Function) => void
```
The `reset` function is called when the template should be removed from the DOM. Interaction Studio does not call this on your website from the Web SDK at any part of the lifecycle of a campaign, but it is utilized by the Interaction Studio Visual Editor when developing a template.

If the template is meant to replace content on the page, the proper implementation of this method is to restore the replaced content.

**IMPORTANT!** It is not advised to call your defined `reset` function directly such as serving as the handler for a close icon.

### Control
```ts
control(context: Object) => Promise<boolean> | void
```
The `control` function is called for users in the control group of the campaign. As such, this function is used to handle sending stats, and possibly to render content, for users in the control group of a campaign. The `control` function can return a `Promise` that delays running the function's code until the `Promise` resolves, similar to how a `Promise` can be used in `apply` function.
