---
path: '/web-integration/user-identity-mapping'
title: 'User Identity Mapping'
tags: ['identity', 'user', 'userId', 'id', 'identifier', 'cookie']
---

This article describes how events sent from the Web SDK are mapped to user records in Interaction Studio. The traditional approach, where users are looked up using a primary ID, is described briefly. The rest of the article focuses on the new approach, where users are looked up using one or more identity attributes. The new approach is recommended for all new datasets, and existing datasets should transition to it. For additional information about how to [configure identity types and attributes](https://doc.evergage.com/display/EKB/Configure+Identity+Types+and+Attributes) in the Interaction Studio UI, please see the [Identity Management](https://doc.evergage.com/display/EKB/Identity+Management) section of the [Interaction Studio Knowledge Base](https://doc.evergage.com/).

### Terms

The following terms are used on this page and in the Identity System:

- **User** - A record in Interaction Studio that attempts to track and personalize for one individual.
- **Anonymous ID** - An identifier generated by the Web SDK that typically stays the same on a given device.
- **Named ID** - An identifier set in the integration by calling setUser. Before the *Identity* feature was released, only one type of named ID was allowed per integration and per user (with the exception of Eloqua/Salesforce sync).
- **Primary User ID** - The internal identifier of the user record in Interaction Studio where the user's activity is tracked. Before the *Identity* feature was released, this was always an anonymous ID or named ID and was just called *user ID*.
- **Identity** - New concept with the release of the *Identity* feature. It connects an arbitrary number of identifiers of different types with each user by Primary User ID.
- **Identity Type** - The field used for identity matching. This can be things like email address or web user ID. Defined at the account level.
- **Identity Attribute** - Any user attribute that is associated with an identity type. These attributes can hold a user's individual identities. Defined per dataset, the attribute type must be either string or multistring.
- **Identity Namespace** - A uniqueness value that indicated that the identity attribute is unique to the dataset. Identity namespace is equivalent to the dataset.
- **Resolve User ID** - This command requests the primary user ID associated with the set of identities.
- **Persisted User ID** - Traditionally, the *Web SDK* remembered the user ID from the previous request using an opaque token that was encrypted by the server. Instead, with the new *Identity* feature the same encrypted token stores the primary user ID resolved by the server along with the set of identities (name and value) provided for the user in this visit. New identities are added/replaced as they are provided to the *Web SDK*.
- **Uniqueness** - This setting defines whether the identity attribute value is unique to only one profile in the dataset (Identity Namespace), such as an email address, and can be used for both lookup and merge, or can belong to multiple user profiles, such as home phone number or mailing address, so it can only be used as a way to filter a group of users.


## The Traditional Approach - Look Up Users via Primary ID

Traditionally, Interaction Studio mapped incoming web events to a user based on the `user.id` property in the event. This ID represented the primary ID of the user entity stored by Interaction Studio. Once `user.id` was specified within a visit, the server would include the user ID in the the `persistedUserId` property in the event response, and the *Web SDK* would automatically include this encrypted form of the ID in subsequent events in the same visit. When the `user.id` property was not yet known, the *Web SDK* would automatically include an `anonId` property in the event, which contained a 16-character unique hexadecimal anonymous ID generated by the *Web SDK*. Interaction Studio would temporarily use this anoynmous ID as the user's primary ID and then automatically merge the user into a user with a named ID once an event was received with `user.id` set.

## Current Best Practice - Look Up Users Using Identity Attributes

As of September 2020, Interaction Studio supports a more powerful way to map incoming events to users based on one or more identity attributes present in the event. To use this new functionality, the *Pipeline Identity Resolution* feature must be enabled for the tenant, and the identity system must be configured for the dataset as described in the Interaction Studio Knowledge Base.

Once the dataset has been configured to use identity attributes for user identity resolution, users are looked up purely by identity attributes, rather than by primary ID. In fact, Interaction Studio will automatically generate a unique 24-character hexadecimal ID for new users. The primary ID is system-managed and can no longer be used to look up users. The new system is more powerful, because if the web ID is not known on a particular page, the user can still be identified by any other identifier that is known. For example, if a user clicks on a link in an email, the landing page URL might contain the user's email address or an ID assigned by the ESP. The email address or ESP ID could then be included in the event sent to Interaction Studio and used to look up an existing user. 

## Configuring the Identity System

The process for configuring the Interaction Studio Identity System is detailed in the [Configure Identity Types and Attributes](https://doc.evergage.com/display/EKB/Configure+Identity+Types+and+Attributes) article in the [Interaction Studio Knowledge Base](https://doc.evergage.com/) and requires Interaction Studio administrator permissions.

At a high-level you will need to:

1. **Review existing identity types** - Interaction Studio comes with five pre-built identity types: email address, Salesforce CRM contact ID, Salesforce CRM lead ID, Salesforce Marketing Cloud contact key, and secondary email address.
2. **Add any additional identity types** - You may need to add additional identity types to meet the needs of your business.
3. **Configure attributes that correspond to identity types** - Even if you do not add additional identity types, you will need to configure the attributes that correspond to the default identity types listed above.

### Anonymous Users

The *Web SDK* will include a generated anonymous ID in the `user.anonId` property in all events. However, Interaction Studio will only consider the event anonymous and use the anonymous ID as the user ID if neither `user.id` nor any identity attributes are present in the event (remember `user.id` now represents the main web user ID, not the primary ID of the user in Interaction Studio). If one or more identity attributes are present, they will be used to look up an existing user, and if not found, a new user with a server-generated primary ID will be created; the anonymous ID from the event will not be used. As always, once an anonymous user logs in or is otherwise identified, Interaction Studio will automatically merge their activity into the identified user's profile.

Note, server-generated user IDs for identified users are 24 hexadecimal characters, versus Web-SDK-generated user IDs for anonymous users which are 16 hexadecimal characters.

### Persisted User ID

The `persistedUserId` property in the event response continues to play an important role in web identity tracking. Traditionally, the persisted user ID was simply the encrypted `user.id`. Once the new identity resolution is enabled, it is still an encrypted string, but it is encoded in two parts instead:

1. the server-resolved primary user ID
2. the list of identity attribute name-value pairs that were used to resolve the primary user ID. This list is cumulative over the course of a visit. For example,  if page 1 sends `emailAddress=joe@example.com` and page 2 sends `loyaltyId=abc123`, both of these attributes will be used to resolve the user and encoded in the persisted user ID. As the *Web SDK* developer, you can include identity attributes in events as they are discovered and Interaction Studio will accumulate and remember those IDs for the remainder of the visit. You do not need to keep track of the set of discovered identity attributes.

Previously, the Interaction Studio server would only include `persistedUsedId` in the response to the first event in a visit containing the `user.id` property. Once identity resolution is enabled, the server will include the latest `persistedUserId` in every event response subsequent to the user having been identified. The *Web SDK* will automatically save the most recently received `persistedUserId` in subsequent events. This means that the Interaction Studio server can reuse the resolved identity and does not have to perform redundant identity resolutions for every event. However, if an event contains a new identity attribute that is not already encoded in the persisted user ID, the server will perform a new identity resolution that takes into account the new identity.

### Sending Identities Through the Sitemap

The default identity attribute you select as the Web SDK Identity can be supplied as the `user.id` in web events configured in the [Sitemap](/web-integration/sitemap). In addition to the default identity, Interaction Studio supports look-up and merge using the Web SDK for any other identity attributes supplied under `user.attributes` in web events. The set of all supplied identity attributes accumulates in the web browser. If there are changes to the default identity sent as `user.id`, Interaction Studio clears the set of all identity attributes stored on the client. This can happen when a different individual starts using the browser on the same device and logs in to a different account.

#### Examples

##### Scenario 1: Only web user ID is known

`webUserIdentityTypId` is set to `webId`. The user's web ID is known, so the *Web SDK* sends an event containing:

```
{
    user: {
        anonId: '0123456789abcdef',
        id: 'abc123'    
    } 
}
```

The Interaction Studio server will check for an existing user with a `webId` identity attribute with value `abc123`. If found, the event activity will be tracked against that user. If not, a new user will be created with a generated primary ID, such as `8675309abacab5551212acdc`, and attribute `webId` with value such as `abc123`. If there was any previous activity for the anonymous user with ID `0123456789abcdef`, that activity will be merged into the identified user.

Note, an alternate way to send the same information would be through the following event:

```
{
    user: {
        anonId: '0123456789abcdef',
        attributes: {
            webId: 'abc123'
        }     
    } 
}
```

##### Scenario 2: Only some other identity attribute is known

`webUserIdentityTypId` is set to `webId`. The user's web ID is not known by the beacon, but the user's email address is known (this is a common scenario for an email clickthrough or a non-logged-in user who signs up for an email list), so the *Web SDK* sends an event containing:

```
{
    user: {
        anonId: '0123456789abcdef',
        attributes: {
            emailAddress: 'billybob@example.com'
        }
    } 
}
```

The Interaction Studio server will see if there is an existing user with a `emailAddress` identity attribute with value `billybob@example.com`. If found, the event activity will be tracked against that user. If not, a new user will be created with a generated primary ID, such as `8675309abacab5551212acdc`, and attribute `emailAddress` with value `billybob@example.com`. If there was any previous activity for the anonymous user with ID `0123456789abcdef`, that activity will be merged into the identified user.

##### Scenario 3: Web user ID and another identity attribute are known but match two different users

`webUserIdentityTypId` is set to `webId`. Both the user's web ID and email address are known, so the web SDK sends an event containing:

```
{
    user: {
        anonId: '0123456789abcdef',
        id: 'abc123',
        attributes: {
            emailAddress: 'billybob@example.com'
        }
    } 
}
```

The Interaction Studio server will check for existing users with `webId` identity attribute with a value of `abc123` or `emailAddress` identity attribute with a value of `billybob@example.com`. Typically for a repeat visit, a single existing user will be matched, but it is possible that two users could be matched - one user with `webId=abc123` and another user with `emailAddress=billybob@example.com`. When this occurs, the Interaction Studio server will select the user who was most recently active prior to this event. The activity from the other user will be automatically merged into the selected user, and the other user will be deleted from the system.

The resulting user record will look like:

```
{
    id: '8675309abacab5551212acdc',
    attributes: {
        webId: 'abc123',
        emailAddress: 'billybob@example.com'
    },
    <merged activity from both matched users>
} 
```

where `8675309abacab5551212acdc` is the ID of the user that was selected based on having more recent activity than the other user.
